 
SEARCH JOBS (125)
 
How to accept a job offer
 June 20, 2019
 Author: Give A Grad A Go
   
How to accept a job offer
 
 

Congratulations - you’ve got a job offer! Now, all you have to do is accept it.

While accepting a job offer seems like it should be a relatively simple process, there are a series of formalities to adhere to. These job offer acceptance fomalities can pose a few potentially confusing questions.

How long should I wait before accepting a job? How formal does my acceptance need to be? Do I still need to write an acceptance letter, or a job offer acceptance email, or will a verbal acceptance suffice?

To ensure there’s no confusion on either end, read on to find out how to accept a job offer, how to negotiate a job offer, and how to hand in your notice.

 


 

1. Receiving a job offer - first stage
 

The question of how to accept a job offer starts with what to do when you first receive the offer. Most employers will offer you the job by phone call; either personally or via a Recruitment Consultant. Accepting a job is a big decision, so take some time to think about it, and ask the employer or the recruiter any questions you have at this stage.

If you want the job but are unhappy with some of the terms of the offer, it may be that you spend some time negotiating at this stage, before accepting the job offer. Scroll down to find out more about how to negotiate your job offer.

Of course, if you’ve been waiting excitedly for the call, and you know that everything about this job is right for you, you can verbally accept it over the phone at this stage.

When accepting a job offer verbally, say ‘thank you’ for the opportunity, show how excited you are about the offer, and make sure to clarify any question marks you have regarding the offer. It’s not a problem if you haven’t been able to confirm your start date yet; just inform the employer or Recruitment Consultant you will let them know as soon as you can.

After this first communication, you should receive a written formal offer; either by email or by post. It’s important that you have written confirmation of the job offer; so if the Employer or Recruitment Consultant doesn’t inform you of this during your phonecall, ask them about it or request that you receive the offer in writing, even if they weren’t planning to send one.

Watch videos on interview questions, CV advice, job hunting tips and more on our YouTube channel!

View our YouTube channel
Join Go Graduate Network to stay up to date with all our competitions, webinars, events and more!

Join Go Graduate Network
2. How to accept a job offer by email / letter
 

When you receive a written job offer, it’s polite to respond to it via a job offer acceptance email reply or a job offer acceptance letter, even if you’ve already verbally accepted the offer.

A job offer acceptance email or job acceptance letter can be fairly brief, but needs to contain the following:

An expression of your gratitude for the job offer and the opportunity
Written formal acceptance of the job offer
The terms and conditions (your salary, job title and any other benefits)
Clarification on your starting date
It’s also important to make sure it’s a well-constructed and formal job offer acceptance email - see it as your chance to show the employer that they made the right decision offering you the job. So when writing your job offer acceptance email or your job acceptance letter, make sure you use proper language (no slang), address the Hiring Manager directly, and use a spell check to ensure proper spelling and grammar.

If you've applied for an internship, it is also common courtesy to write an internship acceptance thank you letter or email. For an internship confirmation letter, you can use exactly the same format as you would for a job offer acceptance.

Use the job offer acceptance email template below to get started:

 

Job offer acceptance email template
Subject line: [*Your name* - Job Offer Acceptance]

Dear [Their name],

Thank you for your offer of [Job title] at [Company name]. I am delighted to formally accept the offer, and I am very much looking forward to joining the team.

As discussed, my starting salary will be [Agreed starting salary], rising to [Increased salary] following a successful probationary period of 3 months. I will receive [days] annual leave, and private health insurance after probation.

I can confirm that my starting date of employment will be [Start date]. If there is any additional information you need prior to this date, please let me know.

Once again, thank you very much for the opportunity, and I look forward to working with you.

Kind regards,

[Your name]